Chacolo Horizontal (Spirits Review #12-19 Mezcal #12-19)

I did a tasting of Chacolo with some friends a while back, and then
came back through these individually to write final reviews. The Cimarron
was not from the tasting, but was an exclusive batch for Catherine Store
that I bought. I think the overall takeaway I have from these is that I'm
not the biggest fan of Chacolo. I enjoyed most of these, but there were
a couple I didn't enjoy and even my favorite of these have stiff competition
considering the price point.
I've liked various raicilla from Venenosa and
Bonete, but Chacolo often has notes I'm not a fan of.

Chacolo Brocha 48.3% Dec. 2017 batch

Nose: Sweet mint that's ice cream like. Lime. Smells like a mojito.
Potato chips.

Palate: Good mouth feel. Vanilla bean, peppermint, and a hint of lime.

Finish: I like this finish. Good length with lots of mint.
I love good mint notes. Fries and mint ice cream.

Overall: I'm a fan of this. Not super complex, but the profile really jives
with me.

Score: 7

Chacolo Ixtero Amarillo/Brocha 47.4% Sep. 2016 batch

Nose: Smells like fluoride and mint. Big dentist office vibes. Not appealing.
Some baker's chocolate emerges with air time.

Palate: Not as much of that fluoride mint up front, but then chemicals and burnt
brussel sprouts emerge towards the finish. Dank vegetation.

Finish: That fluoride mint note remains. 

Overall: I did not like this at all. There's some complexity, but I did
not enjoy the notes and I struggled to finish this.

Score: 3+

Chacolo Ixtero Amarillo 46.5% Jun. 2019 batch

Nose: Lime, parmesan, balsalmic vinegar, and brussel sprouts. Acidic
and vegetal. Chlorine!

Palate: Ash, blood orange, and salted edamame. Improves with air time
and this mushroom note emerges.

Finish: Medium-short finish. Edamame and ash remain. Some of that blood orange.

Overall: I don't like this, but I can drink it.
Better than the ensamble with Brocha, in that
it's drinkable but not something I would buy especially not for the money.

Score: 5+

Chacolo Ixtero Verde 46.5% Apr. 2020 batch

Nose: Smells like what tropical skittles taste like. Some artifical fruit.
That salinity and potato note I get on some of these chacolo. Nice!

Palate: Lime and grilled pineapple. Parsley. This is nice. Tropical
fruit and jicy.

Finish: Medium length. Pineapple remains.

Overall: Kind of reminds me of Cuentacuentos' tepeztate from Alejandrina or
the tobala from Tomas Garcia Cruz that Neta bottled.
It's got that tropical fruit. But it lacks the character of the other two.

Score: 7-

Chacolo Cimarron 47.67% Caatherine Store pick July. 2021 batch

Nose: Canola oil, chips, and chocolate. Some odd acidity.

Palate: Chocolate and chlorine. This transitions to something that reminds
me of dipping Wendy's fries in a frosty. A bit of blood orange.

Finish: Fries and frosty.

Overall: Some off notes hurt this, but it greatly improves with air time in
the glass. I enjoyed this more and more as I drank it. Hard to rate, because
I didn't like it first sip.

Score: 6+

Chacolo Presa Grande 47.1% Jan. 2020 batch

Nose: Cherry jolly ranchers and blood orange.

Palate: Cherry and raspberry. Blood orange joins after. Then there's
this odd fluoride mint note that reminds me of going to the dentist.
This doesn't feel cohesive, but it's fun.

Finish: That fluoride lasts. When I first tasted this with friends I got
a vomit note that I hated, but it wasn't here this time. Long length.
It actually turns into a more refreshing spear-mint like note.

Overall: The fruit and mint combo is kind of fun. I just don't like
the acidic blood orange notes. Reminds me of brushing my teeth after drinking
orange juice.

Score: 6+

Chacolo Azul Telcruz 48.6% Jan. 2018 batch

Nose: Mint and french fries. The fries are slight burnt.

Palate: Sweet powdered sugar is followed by an interesting acidity that's
hard to describe. Maybe like lime juice from a lime that's been left out
too long. Some of that burnt fry note from the nose comes in.

Finish: Burnt fry note. Medium-long. I actually like this note so I enjoy
this finish

Overall: Fun profile. Despite my lack of notes there is some complexity.
I think a touch more oomph on the palate would help.

Score: 7


Score Breakdown:

1-I regret having consumed this.
2-Terrible.
3-Bad. Serious flaws.
4-Subpar.
5-Average or interesting but flawed.
6-Good.
7-Great.
8-Excellent.
9-Top tier.
10-An all-time favorite.
